---
layout: post
title: "Announcement: Project Update"
---
Hey everyone! It's been a while since the last post, so I wanted to update you
all on what's been going on with regards to my personal life, and how it will
affect the project going forward.

## The Good News

So I had a plan for what I was gonna do after attending GodotCon 2024 in Berlin
(which was amazing by the way, Berlin is an awesome city!), which was pretty
much gonna be the same as before: work on the game as much as I can, and get a
pre-release of v0.2.0 out as quickly as possible. However, within a few days of
coming back to the land of tea and crumpets, an opportunity suddenly came up...

Putting a long story short, after a very long time trying, **I have finally
landed a full-time job!**

Now, I can guess that a lot of you already have an idea of where this is
going...

## The Bad News

So I've been in this job for a few weeks now, and while I consider myself
incredibly lucky to have gotten this opportunity, I need to be realistic about
what I can reasonably do outside of work and how I can do it while avoiding
burn-out.

**TL;DR: Going forward, I am simply not going to have the time or energy to work
on Tabletop Club full-time anymore.**

This unfortunately means that, realistically, v0.2.0 will probably never see the
light of day, which feels especially bad to say considering the fact that it was
hopefully going to be a great update to the game.

However, I am not saying that I will *never* work on the game from now on - if
any game-breaking bugs or crashes suddenly appear, I will be sure to fix them
and release a patch for the game. I'll also make sure that multiplayer continues
to work for as long as possible by keeping the lobby server up.

Plus, I will also keep the various official communities active, such as Discord,
Matrix, and the official forum. The game will continue to be playable, and as
such, I will still provide support on these platforms, and there will still be
players who share their custom asset packs.

## Donations

One thing I also wanted to acknowledge is the donations I have received so far:
Firstly, I wanted to give an absolutely massive thank you to everyone that has
donated to the project up to this point, both on itch.io and Ko-fi.
I genuinely thought I was gonna get, like, Â£10 at most, but the amount of
generosity I have received has been absolutely mind-blowing. You guys are
amazing!

Secondly, I have taken the decision to shut off future donations. With having a
job, income is no longer going to be an issue for me, and I will barely be
working on the game as is, so it feels wrong to ask for further donations.

Thirdly, I also wanted to mention that if you donated to the project with the
premise that v0.2.0 was going to be released, or you generally feel that your
donation is now invalid, then I will be more than happy to refund it. If this is
the case, please contact me at <drwhut@gmail.com> using the same email you used
to make the donation, and I will refund the donation to you as soon as possible.

## The Nature of Open Source

If there was one decision that I am especially glad that I took before starting
work on the game in 2020, it was making the game open source. Not only because I
am a huge advocate for open source software in general, but because if it was
closed source, I would have had to abandon the project altogether.

Plus, if the project was open source, I genuinely don't think the game would
have gotten as much traction as it did, considering there are lots of, frankly,
much more developed alternatives out there, such as Tabletop Simulator and
Tabletopia. The fact I made Tabletop Club open source made it an alternative to
these projects, which I am incredibly proud of.

Which leads me to my last, but probably my most important point of this entire
post:

**This does not have to be the end of Tabletop Club's development.**

Due to the very nature of open source software, any one of you has the ability
to take the code I've written, do literally whatever you want with it, and make
it your own. You could keep going in the direction I was going, or you can do
your own thing. Literally the *only* condition you need to adhere to is to keep
the copyright notice from the license, that's it.

If you do end up forking the project, then **please let me know**! Not only
would I love to see what you end up doing with it, but I would also be more than
happy to help provide Godot-related support, and if I have time I might even
help contribute to the code!

## Thank You

Considering this game started out as a hobby project during COVID, I still
sometimes catch myself off-guard looking at the statistics... I never, ever
expected the game to get as popular as it did, and for that, I want to thank
each and every one of you for your support. It genuinely means the world to me,
especially so when I was at my lowest mentally. COVID hit me really hard during
university, and it got to a point where I thought I'd never recover.

From everyone that helped me playtest the game, to everyone that donated, to
everyone that contributed code, to everyone that translated the game into 14(!)
different languages, to everyone that made asset packs and shared them, to
everyone that shared screenshots of what they were making for the game...
Not only did you help the project directly, you also helped me as well.
Seeing the reception this game received gave me a huge, and much needed, boost
to my motivation and confidence that I sorely lacked post-COVID.

And with it, I can move into the next chapter of my life knowing that this was,
without a shadow of a doubt, one of the best decisions I ever made.

I literally cannot thank you guys enough. You're the best <3

Oh, and one last thing... did you know that there are two easter eggs hidden in
the game that no one has discovered yet? :)
