---
layout: post
title: "Release: v0.1.3"
---
Hey everyone! This is a small update to the game so that it uses the newly
re-written lobby server, with a dash of Brazilian Portuguese and a
quality-of-life change to dice to spice things up!

**IMPORTANT:** You will need to install this update in order to continue playing
multiplayer with others!

The big reason this update is happening is because I've recently completed a
re-write of the game's lobby server (previously known as the master server),
which is now written in Rust instead of Javascript. If you're interested in
seeing the source code for the new lobby server, the repository can be found
[here](https://github.com/drwhut/tabletop_club_lobby_server)!

If you would like to see the progress that has been made with the v0.2.0 update
so far, feel free to have a look through the previous devlogs:

* [Devlog #1: New Foundations]({% post_url 2023-11-07-devlog-1-new-foundations %})
* [Devlog #2: So many options...]({% post_url 2024-03-05-devlog-2-so-many-options %})
* [Devlog #3: Happy Birthday!]({% post_url 2024-04-29-devlog-3-happy-birthday %})

I'll also be posting future updates on my fancy new [website](https://tabletopclub.net)
as well, so be sure to check in every so often! You can also follow me on either
[Twitter/X](https://x.com/drwhutt) or [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@drwhut),
as I post the updates there as well.

Until next time!

## Changelog

### Added

- The value of die faces can now be text, as well as numbers.
  ([#209](https://github.com/drwhut/tabletop-club/issues/209))
- Added a "Donate" button to the main menu that opens `ko-fi.com/drwhut` in the
  default browser.
- Added Brazilian Portuguese as a playable language!

### Changed

- The format of the `face_values` property has changed from `VALUE: ROTATION` to
  `ROTATION: VALUE`, allowing for multiple faces of a die to have the same
  value.
- Updated documentation domain from `tabletop-club.readthedocs.io` to
  `docs.tabletopclub.net`.
- Replaced the "itch.io" button on the main menu with a "Website" button that
  opens `tabletopclub.net` in the default browser.
- Combined the "Discord" and "Matrix" buttons on the main menu into one
  "Community" button that opens `tabletopclub.net/community` in the default
  browser.
- Updated the master server's URL and SSL certificate.
- Updated the documentation.
- Updated translations from the community.

### Removed

- The AssetDB no longer requires that the `face_values` property has the same
  number of elements as the number of faces on the die.
